DOCSP-37501 - TLS (#41)
mongodb/docs-pymongo: source/connect/tls.txt

Configure TLS 
=============

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: security, authentication, transport layer security, encrypt

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to use the :wikipedia:`TLS <Transport_Layer_Security>`
protocol to secure your connection to a MongoDB deployment.

When you enable TLS for a connection, {+driver-short+} uses TLS to connect to the
MongoDB deployment, verifies the deployment's certificate, and ensures that the certificate
certifies the deployment {+driver-short+} is connecting to.

To learn more about the connection options in this guide,
see the
`mongo_client <https://pymongo.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api/pymongo/mongo_client.html>`__
API documentation. To learn how to configure your MongoDB deployment for TLS, see the
:manual:`TLS configuration guide </tutorial/configure-ssl/>` in the
MongoDB Server manual. 

.. important::

   A full description of TLS/SSL, PKI (Public Key Infrastructure) certificates, and
   Certificate Authorities (CAs) is beyond the scope of this document. This page assumes prior

>    knowledge of TLS/SSL and access to valid certificates.

Author: Pulled straight from server docs

Author: Updated the link and moved to an API Documentation section to match the rest of our pages.

We don't maintain the pages on readthedocs, but feel free to make any updates there you think make sense!

Enable TLS
----------

To enable TLS for the connection to your MongoDB instance, set the ``tls`` connection
option to ``True``. You can do this in two ways: by passing an argument to the
``MongoClient`` constructor or through a parameter in your connection string.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: MongoClient
      :tabid: mongoclient

      .. code-block:: python

         client = pymongo.MongoClient("mongodb://<username>:<password>@<hostname@:<port>", tls=True)

   .. tab:: Connection String
      :tabid: connectionstring

      .. code-block:: python

         client = pymongo.MongoClient("mongodb://<username>:<password>@<hostname>:<port>?tls=true")

.. tip::
   
   If your connection string includes the ``+srv`` modification, which specifies the
   SRV connection format, TLS is enabled on your connection by default.

   To learn more about the SRV connection format, see
   :manual:`</reference/connection-string/#srv-connection-format>`
   in the MongoDB Server documentation.

Specify a CA File
------------------

During the TLS handshake, the MongoDB deployment presents a certificate key file to your
application to establish its identity. Usually, a deployment's certificate has been

> signed by a well-known CA, and your application relies on this CA to validate the certificate.

Author: I did mention it in the Important box on line 42. I figured that was enough since the box specifically says the page won't explain what a CA is.

> signed by a well-known CA, and your application relies on this CA to validate the certificate.

Reviewer: Ah I missed that it was in that admonition at the top

   .. tab:: Connection String
      :tabid: connectionstring

      .. code-block:: python

         uri = "mongodb://example.com/?tls=true&tlsCAFile=/path/to/ca.pem"
         client = pymongo.MongoClient(uri)

.. _pymongo-certificate-revocation:

Check Certificate Revocation
----------------------------

When an X.509 certificate is no longer trustworthy--for example, if its private key
has been compromised--the CA revokes the certificate. {+driver-short+} includes two ways
to check whether a server's certificate has been revoked.

.. _pymongo-ocsp:

OCSP
~~~~

To use the Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) to validate a server certificate,
you must install {+driver-short+} with the ``ocsp`` option, as shown in the following
example:

.. code-block:: python

   python -m pip install pymongo[ocsp]

The certificate-validation process varies depending on the version of MongoDB Server you're
connecting to:

- **MongoDB v4.4 or later:** The server staples a
  time-stamped OCSP response to its certificate. {+driver-short+} validates the certificate
  against the OCSP response. If the CA has revoked the certificate, or if the OCSP response

>   is otherwise invalid, the TLs handshake fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  is otherwise invalid, the TLS handshake fails.
```

Author: good catch

.. _pymongo-tls:

=============
Configure TLS 
=============

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: security, authentication, transport layer security, encrypt

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to use the :wikipedia:`TLS <Transport_Layer_Security>`
protocol to secure your connection to a MongoDB deployment.

> When you enable TLS for a connection, {+driver-short+} uses TLS to connect to the
> MongoDB deployment, verifies the deployment's certificate, and ensures that the certificate
> certifies the deployment {+driver-short+} is connecting to.

Reviewer: Not dead-set on this suggestion, but I think it could be more clear in list form:

```suggestion
When you enable TLS for a connection {+driver-short+} performs the following actions:

- Uses TLS to connect to the MongoDB deployment
- Verifies the deployment's certificate
- Ensures that the certificate certifies the deployment {+driver-short+} is connecting to
```

signed by a well-known CA, and your application relies on this CA to validate the certificate.

During testing, however, you might want to act as your own CA.
In this case, you must instruct {+driver-short+} to
use your CA certificates instead of ones signed by another CA.

To do so, use the ``tlsCAFile`` connection option to specify the path to a ``.pem`` file
containing the root certificate chain.
You can do this in two ways: by passing an argument to the
``MongoClient`` constructor or through a parameter in your connection string.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: MongoClient
      :tabid: mongoclient

      .. code-block:: python

         client = pymongo.MongoClient("mongodb://<username>:<password>@<hostname@:<port>",
                                      tls=True,
                                      tlsCAFile="/path/to/ca.pem")

   .. tab:: Connection String
      :tabid: connectionstring

      .. code-block:: python

         uri = "mongodb://example.com/?tls=true&tlsCAFile=/path/to/ca.pem"
         client = pymongo.MongoClient(uri)

.. _pymongo-certificate-revocation:

Check Certificate Revocation
----------------------------

> When an X.509 certificate is no longer trustworthy--for example, if its private key

Author: Good catch. I thought our docs platform would convert two consecutive hyphens to an em dash, like Word does. Guess not!
